# Weekly report 4

### Sunday 19.11.2023
I started to get stressed because I feel like I am not proceeding with my project, so I decided to spent this day doing this project even that I feel sick. I hope I feel better next week. I started to create the Graph and GraphBuilder classes. I installed StyleCop to take care of the style check. I find out there is a lot of style checking to do. I fixed most of the style checks, which was extremely educating. I learned also how to use "this." in class variables and methods. I realized it highly improves the code readability. I have to sit in front of the computer the whole day and do not really feel sick anymore. It was a nice day because I could do the Graph and GraphBuilder classes. Now that the graph is built, I can start creating the Dijkstra algorithm. I hope to create both Dijkstra and JPS algorithms this week.

### Saturday 25.11.2023
I had a hectic week. I have four courses, and one of them is at Aalto University. We're working in a group and must implement a VR game in one week. We must demonstrate it on Monday, so I could not do much this week. The good thing is that the Aalto course will end on Monday, and then I can concentrate more on this course. I am optimistic that I can finish the program. Now, the structure of the program is pretty clear to me. Today, I was reading a lot to decide how I want to implement the Dijkstra algorithm. I went through the Tira book about Heap and Dijkstra. I decided to create my own min-heap structure since there is no heap in C#, and I find it interesting and educational. 

I started to create the Heap and Dijkstra algorithm but realized something was wrong with the number of Nodes in the Graph.Nodes list. There were extra nodes, so I was trying to figure out what was wrong. The currentMap string was clean, so it took a lot of work to figure out what the problem was. At some point, I highlighted the characters in .map file with the mouse in Visual Studio and realized there was extra space even though there were no additional characters. I was sure that was a carriage return because I have had a similar problem with it in the past. So, I found out that when I clean the string from '\n' on Windows, the newline character is typically "\r\n" (carriage return and line feed), not just '\n'. I decided to clean the row when it is iterated in GraphBuilder(rows[y] = rows[y].Trim();). This was a significant bug, and I am happy I found it now. It is good to continue from this.

Next week, I plan to develop the Heap and Dijkstra algorithms and, hopefully, JPS as well. Additionally, I will begin their testing. However, since I recently recovered from an illness and I'm also managing two other courses and need to catch up with them, I won't be able to continue the program every day. But the week after next, I'll be able to focus on this course daily and catch up.